An index is a schema object that contains an entry for each value that appears in the indexed column(s) of the table or 
cluster and provides direct, fast access to rows. 
Oracle Database supports several types of index: Normal indexes. (By default, Oracle Database creates B-tree indexes.)

Hash Joins

https://logicalread.com/oracle-11g-hash-joins-mc02/#.WmYra66WbIU



The nested loops join, also called nested iteration, uses one join input as the outer input table 
(shown as the top input in the graphical execution plan) and one as the inner (bottom) input table. 
The outer loop consumes the outer input table row by row.

HASH joins are the usual choice of the Oracle optimizer when the memory is set up to accommodate them. 
In a HASH join, Oracle accesses one table
 (usually the smaller of the joined results) and builds a hash table on the join key in memory.

http://tech.e2sn.com/oracle/sql/the-fundamental-difference-between-nested-loops-and-hash-joins

To identify a long-running query interactively
Start SQL Profiler.
On the File menu, click New, and then click Trace.
Specify the relevant connection details to connect to the computer running SQL Server. ...
In the Template name list, click SQLProfilerTSQL_Duration.
Click the Events tab. ...
Click Run to run the trace.







1. TRUNCATE is a DDL (Data Definition Language) command and DELETE is a DML (Data Manipulation Language) command.

2. You can use WHERE clause with DELETE but not with TRUNCATE .

3. You cannot rollback data in TRUNCATE but in DELETE it is possible to rollback data.

4. A trigger doesn't get fired in case of TRUNCATE whereas Triggers get fired in case of a DELETE command.

5. TRUNCATE is faster than DELETE. TRUNCATE is faster than DELETE due to the way TRUNCATE "removes" rows. Actually, TRUNCATE does not remove data, but rather deallocates whole data pages and removes pointers to indexes. The data still exists until it is overwritten or the database is shrunk. This action does not require a lot of resources and is therefore very fast.

6. TRUNCATE resets the Identity counter if there is any identity column present in the table where DELETE does not reset the identity counter.

7. You cannot TRUNCATE a table that has any foreign key constraints. You will have to remove the contraints, TRUNCATE the table, and reapply the contraints.

8. DELETE and TRUNCATE operations are both logged. DELETE is a logged operation on a per row basis and TRUNCATE command logs the deallocation of the data pages in which the data exists.





 